Companies are using data science to build products, serve costumers and leverage new opportunities.

The techniques and methodologies of data science stem from the fields of computer science and statistics.

Data science is the intersection of:
Hacking skills
Math
Stats knoweledge
Substantive Expertise

Other needs:
Scientific inquiry
Scepticism
Experimentation
Simulation
Replication
Communication skills

A good data scientist is one who can communicate their findings clearly to others

Data Science, by David Donoho:
1. Data Exploration and Preparation
2. Data Representation and Transformation
3. Computing with Data
4. Data Modeling
5. Data Visualisation
6. Science about Data Science

Python 
- high level language
- interpreted language
- dynamically typed language

Python interpreter is stateful. YOur variables exist between cells.

Functions in Python:
1. Since there is no typing, you don't have to set your return time
2. You don't have to set user return statement at all. There is a special value called NONE that is returned which represents the absence of value
3. You can have default values for parameters. We can set the last parametres to be none by default which enables you to overload the function signature without rewriting it.
4. You can assign a variable to a function, and you can pass that variable into other functions allowing some basic functional programming

Types in Python:
The Python language has a built-in function called type which will show you what type a give reference is.
Common types: strings, NONE, integers, floating point, function
Typed objects have properties (data or functions).
Collections: tuples, lists, dictionaries

Tuple - immutable sequence of variables. It can have mixed types for the content
Lists - mutable sequence of variables that can change its lenght, number of elements and the element values

Both lists and tuples are iterable types, and you can use a for loop to go through all their elements, or you can use an indexing operator. 
Common functions include: len, min, max, +, *, in
The most interesting operations you can do with lists are called slicing.

All strings are actually just lists of characters so slicing works on them.

Indexing can be negative. So x[-1] gets the last letter of string x.

Manipulationg strings -  slicing and splitting based on substrings (regular expression evaluation).

The string type has an associated function called split. This function breaks the string up into substrings based on a simple pattern, and returns a list.

Dictionaries - labeled collections which have no ordering. For each value you insert into the dictionary, you must also give a key to get that value out. dict{key : value}

You can iterate over all of the items in a dictionary in a number of ways:
1. Iterate over all of the keys
2. Iterate over the values
3. Iterate over both the values and the keys using the item's function -> called UNPACKING

Strings 
- unicode based
- in addition to unicode, it uses a special language for formatting the output of strings

String manipulation is a big part of data cleaning.

Python Date and Time:
One of the most common legacy methods for storing the date and time in online transaction systems is based on the offeśet from the epoch - January 1, 1970.

You can get the current time since the epoch using the time module. You can then create a time stamp using the from time stamp function on the date time object.
Date time objects allow for simple math using time deltas, commonly used in data science for creating sliding windows.

Objects in Python
Python does have classes which can have attached methods, and be instantiated as objects.

You can define a class using a class keyword, and ending with a colon. Anything indented below is within the scope of the class.
Classes in Python are generally named using camel case.

To define a method, you just write it as you would write a function. To have access to the instance which a method is being invoked upon, you must include self in the method signature.

If you want to refer to instance variables set on the object, you prepend them with the word self, with a full stop.

Objects in Python do not have private or protected members.

There is no need for an explicit constructor when creating objects in Python. YOu can add a constructor if you want to by declaring the __init__ method.

Functional programming is a programming paradigm in which could change through execution of a given function.

The map function is one of the basis for functional programming in Python. All iterable arguments are unpacked together, and passed into the given function. The map function returns a map object.
Maps are iterable, so we can use a for loop to look at all of the values in the map.

Lambda - annonymous functions
The return of a lambda is a function reference.
